Could you just, for the sake of my tape, tell me your complete name?
Alright, my name is Alice, middle initial M, last name Laurent.
And that's spelled L-O-R-E-N-T-H.
I'm going to give you a comment card.
And my title is Head of Special Collections and Fine Arts Music.
And this is an
And right now, you are in special collections, which is really known as the John Griswold White Collection of Folklore, Orientalia, and Chess.
This is the world's largest library in chess.
But how did that happen?
Well, Mr. White, whose portrait is right there on the wall, was a book collector in the bibliophile and the chess aficionado.
And very early in his life as a Jungian, in, oh, I would say around 1867, he set out to buy every book ever published or having anything to do with chess in any language.
Chess being a game, it sparked manners and customs, folklore, so he got into that area.
And then when America had
his problems with the Philippines, he sent his secretary over to the library, put a book on the Philippines.
He couldn't find any, and he decided that he is going to provide the library with research and reference materials on the non-Western cultures.
So that's where William Talia comes into that picture.
And this is all the same man again.
And it's the same man.
And from that time on, until his death in 1928, he has personally selected and purchased about 50,000 volumes in orientalian chess.
I mean orientalian folklore.
His chess and checker books he kept at his house.
and they led it to the library when he died, and they amounted to about twelve thousand.
Twelve thousand?
Twelve thousand.
Any incunables?
Oh, yes.
There's about seven or eight incunables, and some of them are, of course, on chess, and some of them are unique, and some of them are not that unique.
but they have some beautiful oriental manuscripts, especially in Arabic and Persian, which are very important.
And the collection has around 180,000 volumes, the white collections, and it includes over 7,000 languages in dialects, I mean materials in 7,000 languages in dialects.
It is completely catalogued.
Many of our oriental language books are not online because of the problem of translation.
By that I mean that the library community has not decided on everything.
transliteration problem.
Now, like Arabic is decided, Chinese, Japanese is decided, but there are many other languages which have not been tackled, and they can't go on on OCS yet.
But like a few years ago, we started to add all our Tibetan material.
Now, when Mr. White died, he established the John G. White Trust Fund.
and we still have the trust fund, and we still use its income for purchases of books and materials.
What kinds of areas are you buying in?
What kinds of areas are you acquiring in?
We are acquiring in Oriental studies up to the—it differs in the Oriental countries.
Up to the predominance of Western influence, which means that in Japan, for example, we will stop after Commodore Parish time, you know.
And in China, it goes a little bit further.
In Arabic countries, it may stop at the end of the 18th century and so on and so forth.
In folklore, it's totally international.
We do not buy popular books pertaining to Canadian, American, and English folklore.
We feel that those areas should be well developed by the other departments of the library, but we do buy the research materials, and we do buy reference materials, and we really have very extensive holdings.
As a matter of fact, our Foucourt catalog has been published in 73 volumes.
Really?
I don't get it.
73 volumes.
No.
Is this all part of the library out here, by the way, or what are these buildings there?
That is the Cleveland Board of Education.
I see.
Behind there, there is the public auditorium where you can have conventions or some theatrical productions.
But all of these buildings you see here have been a part of what used to be known as the Cleveland Mall plan.
I see.
So that's why you have the same height and sort of the... It looks like Washington, D.C.
in some respects.
You know, they have the mall and the... Yeah.
Yeah.
in the library as an institution.
I guess it's one of the largest public libraries in America.
And its role in, you know, Cleveland.
Why Cleveland?
Why does Cleveland have such a wonderful library?
Here we have over three million catalog monographs in this library.
I don't really know the extent, if you add all the materials together.
But why Cleveland?
Don't forget, Cleveland was a very rich town.
It has a very rich New England and European heritage.
The library is 125 years old.
They started it literally, you see, the collection.
And for the same reason why do we have such a wonderful
art museums, Cleveland Museum of Art is European.
And I would say it's among the three leading American art museums that there are.
And why do we have the Cleveland Orchestra?
Same reason.
George Fell, Christoph von Dochnany, it's that again, a world famous orchestra.
Cleveland has
I wrote it in one of my articles, that in the 19th century, there were quite a few polymets.
Did you write an article on this?
Yeah, I've written quite a few articles.
Could I get copies of these?
Yeah, yeah, sure, but in which area interest you?
I'm interested in exactly in the areas that you're talking about.
I have a very expensive article, which I never published, because I just didn't have the
to send it anywhere, but I wrote a very extensive article on a chess collection a year or so ago.
One of these days I will just update it and, you know, have it properly.
But she says an earlier article about you said there were some polymaths and... Yes, there is.
And this is from an article that you wrote.
Well, no, I just mentioned it in my chess article that one was like Mr. White,
and there is a severance family.
There is a Huntington family for the colonialism of art.
And these people had the money and they also had a very strong social conscience.
They thought that they ought to give back something to this city to give them their wealth and success.
There was a tradition of giving, and that's how this institution started.
But in terms of book culture, it's more than a library, it seems.
You've mentioned three million books.
Oh, yes.
They said that's monographs.
They also have archives and all the visual materials and microphones.
Like in my fine arts and music collection, I had
over 20,000 sheep music.
It is not included in this three million because they are not cataloged as monograph.
It is a very large library with a research library, main library where you are right now.
And then we have over 30 branches in our branch system which only have naturally circulating collections.
But it is somewhat like the New York Public Library.
You have the research libraries and you have the bench in there.
And this one, the special collections, in addition to the white collection, has a collection of rare books, which books used to belong to various subject departments, but I came here in 69,
And in 72, we established the rare book collection, which meant that we were filling in, and we are still filling in, rare books from a variety of subject departments, and all subjects.
So they're culling the general collections, in other words, and finding items that more appropriately belong here.
Like, you know, the surface was Indians.
It does not belong to the open shell.
And we found someone.
Let me show you the red collection.
I'm going to... Okay.
Where is the new building going up?
Oh, I will show it to you.
It's next to us.
It's...
I'm checking some.
You said you have a homepage on the internet?
Yes, on the internet, and it's quite expensive.
And we also have part of that catalogue on the internet.
Let me get that.
Let us go in there.
What you said, it's only just part of the White Collection.
We have storage areas that we are going in today.
I love the ceiling.
It is really after the Palazzo Modena in Rome.
And, you know, Mr. White was on the board for about 18 years.
And he was the president of the board, I don't know how long, 15 or 15 years.
And he was really responsible for this building, this building.
So, by that time, it was in 1935, he knew that he was giving... I mean, he had given 50,000 volumes by that time for a library, so this was built according to his specifications, and I think it is good.
Look at this.
Oh, I've never seen it again.
And it's so beautifully made, right?
Well, this used to be a lecture
Then we ran out of space and it broke my heart that we had to put in this wall.
And what you still see here and in the wall is the real materials in the white collection.
Then this is all chess.
Now, you know what's so interesting about the chess collection?
You will love that.
He did not only collect
tournament books, rules, study books, history, and chess.
He collected everything which made significant references to the game of chess.
So I had all the small, terribly layered author collections by additions.
Was he a good chess player?
Mediocre, I understand.
You see, they collect these by faith.
And he has collected it.
That's Rebellé?
Yeah.
Rebellé is a Rebellé collection.
It's silver.
that Michael Steele from Oxford about three years ago when he did his rabbi bibliography, had to come over here and spend two summers here, because I had traditions here which you could find anywhere else, including the bibliography as well, you know.
The same for Castile Unis with the journal.
It's a fantastic collection.
Well, look at all the Rabelais.
Why so much Rabelais?
Because it's everywhere.
And why thought every edition of everything that made Rabelais?
It sounds like the RN's tobacco collection of the New York Public Library, only the chess equivalent.
That's right.
Now, of course, you know, I did say that this is the collection that was officially renamed and added to special collections, because by that time, in addition to the right collection, we had twelve other additional collections.
So, this is what I'm going to show you.
Like, it is the latest.
It's a Bruce Rogers collection.
It's Bruce.
And this is all Bruce Rogers.
These are lovely cases.
These go back a little ways, don't they?
Yes, that goes back to originally.
And they are going to look back, and they came out from this side of the mall, and then that's right.
Look at that beautiful sail.
Wonderful.
I was very happy if you were able to say that, and I insisted on seeing these cases.
I knew that... They're wonderful.
I was first to notice them.
You know, money will be available.
I knew it, not at that time, but I wanted to save them.
I wasn't about to crash them.
So, then the court is going to come off from here.
Good.
No.
with the respiration and this thesis are going to go back where they belong.
They sit there just perfect.
And this unionization, they took away from the children and the children.
Let me see, like this.
This is an archive of superstitions and popular beliefs.
And we have published that in the last... When I came here,
I promised the director that I'm going to establish a publication project.
So, so far we have published about five major publications, and this is a three-volume work edited by William Hand, who was the superstition expert in the United States.
Our last publication project was about two years ago,
It's about the... it is.
the Francis Hall Journals, which was his manuscript in Paula, California, and which so far is the first complete diary of the first fifteen years of the term of the period of the German sports.
And this man was an educated man.
And he went out there right after, you know, the post-group, and established a trading company, but kept a very crooked journal of daily life for business contacts with the Japanese, and so on, and so forth.
So, I found this journal, and then it's very exciting.
And then we succeeded in interesting, made Fred Noodhopper from the University of California, who is the 19th century Japanese man in the United States, the editor in Princeton, Brazidon.
And we published one of the first books on Black Names in America that's based on our archives.
And I did the three-volume catalog of local booklines and folk songs.
And my predecessor did it all.
I'm very proud to show you that, not those, those like this, which goes to Romania, but this is our entire backlog.
That's all that we have, the backlog, right?
That's very good.
I'm very proud of that.
And right now, here you are in the...
so-called rare book collection.
Everything which is here is rare books, and I have another storage for rare books, and I have another storage for middle rare books.
But these are books which were collected from subject departments.
And you decided that they were rare?
Well, I went to find them.
I don't know when, but, you know, it's still an ongoing project.
In my experience... Princess, look at this book.
This came from the General Collections.
What is it?
Can you just tell me what it is?
Well, this is the history of Russian atlas.
And it's huge.
Look at that.
Look at that wonderful binding gold of the... It's from the reference collection, number two.
Yeah, Hobart Kiramnesis.
Look at that.
Look at, oh my God, look at that.
And somebody, God forbid, could go in and steal these maps out of there.
They are not in my department.
I'm saying, when they were out in reference, they were vulnerable, I guess is the word I'm saying.
I can tell you, some of them, like, I neglected to pull in a dart hunter book.
And by the time I got to pulling it in, it was gone.
It was circulating.
One of the dealers came in and he said, oh, I have a copy you can buy for $800.
I said, you know.
Roger, you don't have to go through the whole thing.
That came from, we're looking at a beautiful book.
Not quite an elephant folio, but it's... All right.
How about the North American Indians, sir?
Oh, my God.
Edward Curtis, C-Y-T-I-S, the North American Indian.
And, you know, they think about some of these plates at $20,000.
How many volumes?
All of these.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20.
Yes.
This is 20 volumes?
And where were these?
These are all general collections.
Anybody could come in and take them out.
Are all the plates preserved?
Before 1972.
That's fairly recent.
But all the plates are still there?
The Curtis one, yes.
Here is the Nuremberg Chronicle.
Don't tell me that was out there, too.
Well, anything that you see here, I could show you, except I put it in.
Is that an original binding in the Chronicle?
The chronicle didn't have an original binding.
I have seen about twelve original chronicles.
They all were bound differently.
The various owners had bound them.
That's right.
It was the same thing with the Copernicus.
They printed them, and then the owner would bind it to his taste.
Now, look at that.
Dickens.
This chipling, with the chipling leather in here.
So this room basically houses material that you have collected from your own general collections.
Correct, that's right.
How many volumes would you think are in here?
20,000 volumes.
20,000?
Over the last 25 years?
Yes, and that's in 72.
You've been here since 72?
No, I've been here since 69.
And where did you come from?
From the Cleveland Museum, from the Budapest Museum.
My original training is in museology.
Uh-huh.
And it's the news and curricular training.
And I was lucky because I couldn't think up my mind what I wanted to become.
So I wanted to get a triple masters.
And that's it here.
And where was that?
Where did you get?
Because, uh— Are you Hungarian?
Yeah.
One is in—I'm German.
I'm English.
One is the—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in—in
and the other is art history, and the third one is an archaeology.
Now, this I pulled in, and I am happy to tell you, but it has 18 documents in it.
Come on.
Yeah.
Some different letters, and... Authentic, holographic documents?
Can I see the cover of this?
No.
So this is something you bound here, probably, at some point.
Oh, it hasn't.
No.
Tell me a little bit.
Tell me a little bit about this.
That's a fascinating book.
The title is David Copperfield, Volume 2.
Sure.
Okay.
Now... Well, this is a set, obviously.
Yes, this is a set.
So these aren't first editions, per se.
No, but this is the limited edition.
But it is a laid-in sub with 18 documents.
And so they can flatter.
Can I just see what this says here?
This is the gift of William E. Baldwin.
So, this was a gift in 1964.
And they were out downstairs.
This is in the literature department.
Yes, yes.
This is the national edition.
It's called the National Edition.
There's only 750 copies for England and America, the type of which has been distributed as each wagon was printed.
So Chapman and Hall teaching.
And what year was this?
I think that this was 1910 or something.
It's wonderful.
It's beautiful.
And it was owned by the son of Richard.
the one who is living in America at one point.
But it has a very, very curious, interesting background.
If you want to, I have given a clock on it, I can send a copy.
That would be great.
I ran out of cards, and so I'm going to have to write down my name for you.
If you give me your card, I'll let you know.
It is really very interesting.
Can I see one of the letters?
I'm just thinking, which volume has it been?
So it's one letter or a letter?
No, two Dickens letters, and the rest of them from the Dickensian circle, like his and his doctor, and it's just, I was in London, I started to tell you that, and I spent three days with Kathleen Philipson,
who is publishing the Deacon's Correspondents.
So these materials will be published in the Deacon's Correspondents.
Are they good letters?
I mean, are they?
One of them he wrote on board ships when he was coming over to the seamstress, you know?
No.
But some of the letters, you know, from this circle are not that important.
But those two Dickens letters are important, especially the one which he wrote.
Well, I don't think so, I'm sure.
And he's saying that he's coming over here, you know.
So, at that time, we don't use that anymore.
We just use their books.
But you see, this is the way how this word published.
But it happened here.
And the shelf comes point, point.
So I do not believe in doing anything.
So I kept the original boxes.
But I have ordered these boxes.
This is how they were issued, so you certainly want to keep them.
I'm not about to discard them.
You know, because I want to see them.
They are wonderful.
So what you've got is you've alternated the box that was issued with it with your own clamshell box for each volume.
And how many, I think you said 26 volumes?
Yeah, something like that.
I've never seen this offer.
This must be a very—I've never seen these available.
You wouldn't believe how excited I was, and how lucky I was.
But you just found this?
I found this, but I didn't think it was big or big kind of all that.
Were you just going through the collection?
I am going through the collection.
So you continue to go through the collection?
You see, this is not catalogued, as with these letters.
Didn't mean that the letters are in it.
I pulled in the addition.
And I put it in because of one reason, because of the binding.
This is done by a very famous English binder.
And I was just looking for you, for—not all of them are signed.
The official library at the University— So you were just kind of going through, and— I am going to.
I'm still doing.
So this is a continuing process, but— But so where in the library were these?
Just there?
I could come in if I had a library card and take that book out?
No, but you could borrow that.
I mean, you could use it in the library.
So it was not circulating.
It was not a circulating book.
That's good.
It was a reference book, but you could sit down and use it.
And they were so fortunate, nobody stole the letters.
I couldn't be late.
Well, nobody probably—yeah, but it's late.
I'm surprised somebody didn't know.
I mean, you're very lucky.
And you know what else I was lucky for?
In about two days, I found an auction sales record of this set.
Uh-huh.
And it was sold in New York, and by the Adams, book dealers.
And I think this is the one.
Yeah.
Now, here is one document.
Look at that.
You see?
I've identified all of them.
That's an envelope with a stamp on it.
Yeah.
That's not a facsimile.
That's the original.
No, no, no.
These are all original.
And you know what is so interesting?
There's another one.
Here they are.
They can clutter.
That's definitely different.
There you are.
Here is from Hyde Park Place London.
That's the second letter.
It's interesting.
and he wrote it to Buckstone, and Tillotson was very happy about that, because it sets his address in that time, you know.
Which was Gadshill Place?
Gadshill Place was his.
Okay, but this is 1870, so... Yeah, 1870, yes.
But he was traveling, you see, at this year.
And this, it was written in athron, and he's saying that he will be at Gertrude Place until the first of June.
So the dates of that place is him?
Yes.
Of course, he's trying to determine where he is.
It's quite important, you know.
I almost slept.
This is Crookshank.
You almost what?
I almost slept.
And this is a letter from Crookshank.
Look at that.
My dear friend.
By the light of yesterday evening, son, I discovered that you and your wife had got a daughter.
Oh, that's to a friend.
Congratulations for 1856.
That's Cripshank.
That's pretty good.
Oh, God, this is wonderful stuff.
So what was the auction record?
How much did it sell for?
Well, in fact, it didn't interest me so much.
What interested me was this, uh,
Because I'll track down the newspaper advertisement.
It said that this set was sold by the second son of Lord Connolly, who lives in New York and who is selling vegetables.
This is awfully interesting.
You know why?
Because he never had a second son.
Right.
He did not have a legitimate second son.
Oh, Dickens, though, I was saying.
You, the Somerhill.
Somerhill, I'm sorry.
Fine and dandy.
Who was this man who sold those things and claims to be?
Now, it is perfectly possible that, and... You're not talking about this set, now you're talking about another set.
Exactly this set.
This very set.
Oh, so you found the record for it?
Yes.
Two records.
And the newspaper article on it, you know.
It also said that the man inherited only this set from his father, and a picture, a painting by somebody, I forgot.
But who was this man?
He was not a legitimate son.
Now, of course, you know, I've, you know, gotten in touch with the English family.
They are not answering, and I have not had a chance to, um, how can I say, uh, to make an answer.
Mm-hmm.
I mean, I can.
Um, I have, uh, I know people in England who are in the same circles, and I've had, you know,
Eventually, I will get to that guy, you know.
But he's just a, I understand that he's just a youngster, just inherited the title a year before this set came up.
And probably he was just a playboy.
I was unfortunate.
I should have found this set a year before he came, because his father, I understand, was very... A little more agreeable, yeah.
...oriented.
But I will run this now.
I just hope it's not a big town called Butler.
But, you know.
Anyhow, I am not sure you have never seen this.
It is the heaviest book in the writing.
Investigations and studies in jade.
Two writings.
Huge.
Bigger than elephant fairy is.
85 pounds.
You know why?
It has specimens of jade in it.
It is the heaviest thing you have ever written.
Well, we'll leave it where it is.
We'll leave it right there where it is.
But that also is in reference, right?
Oh, and then here you have Pyrenees.
Beautiful books.
Really, wonderful.
Congratulations.
And when did you establish this unit?
I am looking and it can start in the tomb.
So you've decided, I'm going to make a, this is a project.
So we have treasure right here in the building.
Yeah, right.
It used to be called treasure,
It comes, you know, from the German Kunstkammer.
But the Americans in Cleveland, they really thought they were hiding some gold behind the doors, you know.
So they were recognized for their value, but they were just not as secure as they should be.
Well, they were just reference books, but not all of them.
So why were they in a room?
Why do they call the room the treasure room?
Because that was the original John G. Wright treasure room.
I see.
Mr. White.
But it was the reference room.
Well, I knew.
You see, the door where we came through used to have a lettering over its treasure room.
I see.
Okay?
And this is where they originally had the John G. White rare books.
I see.
These are not John G. White rare books.
They did not come from John G. White himself.
or were purchased by his funds, you see.
We keep that separate.
We have to, legal-wise, because we have the trust fund.
Of course, yeah.
So these were purchased with Cleveland Public Library funds.
I see.
And these are what again?
These are huge.
I don't know what this big money is all about.
Want me to help you?
It's time I shoot you.
Oh, that's the Piranesi also.
And what are the Piranesi?
The Piranesi are one of the most wonderful people use of the people label.
T-I-R-A-N-E-S-I.
Yeah.
Piranesi.
Vases, candlesticks, and tripads.
Triptics.
Triptics, T-R-E-P-I-C.
Triptics, you know, there's three.
Triptics is the three, yeah.
It's spelled differently.
Yeah.
And this one,
and also build that out with them.
And we don't need the prints.
If you look up auction records, we realize very kind of, individually, people, friends.
Did Bob say when he was going to come to get me, by the way?
Oh, B-L-E-A-U.
Yeah.
Oh, that's famous.
Yeah, that's famous.
Those are very famous.
I think that that book is all English.
Tableau is 2, 4, 6, 8, 12.
Huge books, whites.
Oh, yeah.
Well, you know, they're not as big as the Audubon.
Do you have an Audubon set here?
No.
I have the money for that.
Now, this is where the cathedral, in fact, is in this open shelf, but right now it's up in New England and it's being restored.
Where?
New England?
New England Conservation Center.
Oh, I see.
Yeah, because I'm based in Boston.
Now, this here, our political campus, this is about the 16th century,
And they're just wonderful.
They come from, they keep them by country.
Sixteenth century.
Yeah.
Fifteen hundred.
That's the real idea, I believe.
And... And where did these come from?
They come from the history department.
And where did they get them?
There must have been gifts.
Originally, they bought them.
We don't know the problems of everything.
But, I mean, how did they get to the Cleveland Library?
Somebody bought them.
We have some very, very well-educated librarians here.
especially in 1910, 20th, 30th, 40th, 50th, 50th, you know.
And the Cleveland Public Library, up to the middle of the 19th, up to 1977, I believe, hired subject specialists for its subject department.
Otherwise, a generalist librarian would not be hired
to work in science and technology or in literature, you know.
And the former head of foreign literature just retired.
My goodness, that woman spoke six languages fluently, you know.
Now, after 1977, the idea of generalists coming in was
And it's very difficult for a person like me, because I said, what do I do with an American lit major?
Sure.
I don't need that, you know.
Did Bob say, by the way, what time he's picking me up?
Oh, he's going to come in here.
Oh, is he?
Oh, you do?
Okay.
You know, I'm giving a talk tonight at the Rofond Club.
Do you know what that is, that description, is it?
on the Napoleonic Survey of Egypt.
Oh, is that what that is?
So those are probably the original lithographs in there.
Oh, yes.
One, two, three, four, five, six, eight, ten.
What are they called again now?
Description of Egypt in French.
And this is an Ethiopic manuscript.
These are elephant folios.
They're called white elephant folios.
And these look like they've been used pretty good.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
And they have been, you know, in the general sex, pretty much abused.
This is why I was, you know, willing to undertake this extra job because I wanted to save this material.
And you do not prepare before that.
And you do not look...
You don't keep them dusty either.
There's no dust in my collection.
So what persuaded you to do that?
There's no dust in your collection.
Nope.
I love that quote.
Neither am I very popular with some of my pages, you know.
Well, you do what you have to do, though.
I said a young man, grab that dust cloth and get busy.
There's no dust in my—I love that.
I hate it.
I mean, I hate when you have—
an extensive book under a cover of dust.
Dust is very, very damaging to paper.
So you basically kind of have free reign.
You decide, you go out and say, this book comes up, so you have no problems with the other departments.
Oh, no.
Well, no, because you don't do that.
When we started out, when I started out, I was talking to all the department heads
I explained what they are trying to do.
I get them on my side, and I consider it a cooperative effort.
And if they have any suggestion, I'm very grateful to review it.
And if I find something, I don't order them, I ask.
This is not a position where you
are a dictator.
You work with your colleagues, and you have to make it sure that they understand what is the purpose of it, and that it isn't that somebody is raising their collection.
I have never had one opposition.
Never.
And I usually send it to them, the request, with a dealer's quote.
I would say that, now you have this book, it costs too much,
in addition of being rare, would you consider its friends?
The next thing I see the book is up here.
No, no, never in here.
Great.
And you know, since I started this preservation project in this library, they love to come in here once in a while.
And this is all, of course, with greatly restricted access.
Nobody comes in.
Nobody comes in here.
You want to see something, you fill out a request slip and staff brings it out to you and you sit at the table with another two pencil.
Not even my colleagues come in here and escort them.
Not even in another department has been doing research here alone, no.
I'm not taking that responsibility.
I trust them, but it's in progress.
You're doing what has to be done.
That's all.
In progress.
You have to respect.
These are very precious things that have been entrusted to your care, and that's what you're doing.
This is a collection of singing to Admiral Gould.
Uh-huh.
which doesn't contain too many original material and I'm very seriously considering
to the Ohio University in Columbus because they have an admiral.
I'm a great believer of building on your strengths.
And I think that this is really just the secondary.
So what it is, it's basically some... It's a new kid, yeah, first edition, and a woman's craft book.
Yeah, that's not primary material.
It's not a primary material.
A few.
The people of Cleveland have a wonderful facility here, don't they?
Look, this is the Darth Hunter book.
I saw one of these in Hugo Alper's house yesterday.
Well, by now I think I have almost all of this book of the Darth Hunter one.
And I already ordered the new one that the human down in Southam there is going to publish next year.
Is this a book about him?
Yeah.
Yeah, but it also will have specimens.
Who's publishing it?
Do you know what?
Oh, she's published.
Not uphand.
I don't think uphand.
You know, but this is like him.
And this is, I have to check it, make it sure that the Catalani... Now, what is this?
This is Doron's work.
This is the way we are handling them.
Very secure.
And this is 1603.
1603.
By whom again?
By Doron.
D-O-R-O-N.
And is this his handwriting here?
This is Basilikum.
No, this is not his handwriting.
This is somebody with the last name of Scott.
I see.
An early owner.
An early owner, I think.
And this came out of the first question.
That's amazing.
What was the title of this?
A basilicum.
That's a Greek word.
How do we spell it with the English?
Oops, I'm sorry.
It's B-A-S-I
L-I-K-O-N.
By James Doron.
D-O-R-O-N.
I'll show it in a minute.
Just so when I transcribe this tape, it won't be indifferent.
Isn't that exciting?
We have this one statement here.
The problem is that I have to go through each and every one of them personally.
I'm just one person, you know, not a million volumes.
But you said that when you began you had three different graduate interests, so you really didn't know it would be books.
You didn't know that your future, your career, your profession would be with books.
No, I was supposed to be a Muslim curator.
But now how do you feel being with books?
I love books.
I grew up with books.
Did they have the same kind of artifact, the same...
effect on you as an artifact, so that a museum piece might?
Well, I can't say that I can get as excited about them as I would about the Picasso.
Well, that's a unique piece, of course.
You know.
Or any artwork was great important, but I love books, I grew up with books, and I was very fortunate because in my training,
I had over 130 hours in epigraphy alone.
So... What was that study?
Epigraphy.
You said, you know, various scripts, handwriting.
Here is your Doron.
D-O-R-O.
James Doron I, I suppose.
No, no, no, no.
That's I. You know, let me show I. Just call it Basilikum.
Okay.
We're talking about his name, Mrs. Vettel.
That's okay, that's fine.
I see.
That's about changing.
You know, I think Bob was probably... Let's go off.
I have to go home and put a tuxedo on for tonight.
I'm sorry, you say you buy like... You buy expensive.
At auction?
Through dealers?
From Ethiopia to South Asia to Mali, you name it.
All our European countries, Marquess, London, Paris.
I love these old carts.
They've lasted forever.
But these are only new acquisitions in the last few months.
These are new acquisitions?
We're looking at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
There are 10 carts here.
So who's deciding what to buy?
I guess you or Lange?
I'm going to the bookseller.
For this department and for fine arts.
and for music history.
The only thing I do... So you wear three hats, so to speak.
Yeah.
The only thing I don't sound like is musical scores.
We have a wonderful music library in them.
And, you know, the Chinese money?
Look at that.
That's the money that Marco Polo was reporting on.
Oh, my goodness.
By the way, have you heard this wonderful argument about Marco Polo and the English librarian who said that Marco Polo was never in China?
It is just a raging argument right now.
Some people say Shakespeare didn't exist either.
Marco Polo described this money in 1928
Several specimens were discovered in Nanking, and this is one of the specimens.
Wow.
And is that something that was purchased or given?
No, this was my husband's embarrassment.
Mr. White had a half specimen, and we were at the dinner at somebody's house in Cleveland, and this gentleman was the first
American consul in China with jurisdiction over to that.
He was retired.
And we were having dinner, and I was up on the mall between the suit and the entree, and that was on his mall.
So he told me who he got it from, you know, somebody from Adlesham, somebody, a Chinese person.
And so by the time we lost, I lost this place under my arm as a gift to the collection.
My husband was outraged.
He said, you do not go to dinners and you do not come away with the wild decoration.
Don't you ever do that.
But you got it, though.
And some wonderful pictograph.
Healing, it's important.
The cause is good.
Yes, but he took my husband a couple of, he's a very traditional European gentleman, and he was just absolutely awesome.
He said, you can't do that.
You're going to give me your card.
I am, and there is Bob.
Where are you staying?
I'm staying at the home of Bob Jackson.
Sorry, why don't you just say that again?
Just for your information, the Cleveland Public Library does have very detailed criteria for rare books, and also a second set of criteria for research library materials, which are books which are not quite for the rare book collection, which are in general stacks, but which should be protected.
because they have a potential of becoming rare.
Do you collaborate with other professionals, library professionals in the United States?
Is this something that you think is endemic throughout?
Oh, yes.
I served on many, many committees.
But I'm sure you discussed this as a body of professionals.
Oh, sure.
You say this is something we all have to be doing.
And many of them are doing it.
Five years ago, I...
gave a lecture at the American Library Association Rare Books Conference on our transfer policies of rare books from general staff.
And yes, I'm quite active in both the art library field and also in the rare books field.
Not as active as I would like to be,
But there's a time limit.
I will be in touch.
I'll write you when I get home.
The Farrakhan Foundation in London, that's a foundation for Islamic manuscripts.
And in their annual newsletter, they reported that the most important library of Islamic manuscripts in the former Yugoslavia was saved during the troubles.
And where did they cook them, do you know?
They didn't see, exactly.
I'm doing a whole chapter on this, not just Sarajevo, Islamic stuff, Cambodian stuff.
I'm really interested in preserving things that are irreplaceable.
And also destroying things that are irreplaceable.
So Farrakhan.
Farrakhan.
You know what?
I will send you with my packet a copy of that report.
It's going to be a major chapter in my book.
It's going to be a funny book.
Arabic manuscript, Persian manuscript, Saludian manuscript.
When I come back.
Over 30 Pali manuscripts.
30 which?
Wow.
And I have all that.
Manuscripts and Tom Leap in the United States.
Tom Leap, yeah.
Four things to the Library of Congress, 19th century.
Wow.
Started for 30 bucks 15 years ago.